[Music]
a super wealthy businessman mr carl
jenkins
has been taken and left locked up all
alone in a dark room
his phones almost run out of charge so
he can only write
one message he knows that someone might
spy on his phone so he decided to write
a message with a code to a high school
friend
john smith who runs a detective agency
he remembered that in high school they
would cipher messages to each other
so he used the same technique the
message was this
can you guess what it means
back in high school they would shift one
letter to the right
each time they needed to write a secret
code to decipher it
you need to go one letter to the left
their alphabet looks like this
the message is it was eric
having read the message john knew
immediately who his friend was talking
about
eric is the financial director of carl's
company he had seen him once at a party
a couple of years ago
so he knew what he looked like john
decided to investigate this case himself
and help his friend out he was sure
there was something secret in carl's
mansion
somehow he thought he knew that eric
would have the key to the mansion
the receptionist kelly said he would
always have lunch with different
business partners at 2 pm
sharp in his favorite cafe when the
detective drove up to the cafe
he saw eric the man with a beard
discussing
business with someone either of them had
a briefcase next to them
and the briefcases looked similar to
each other john was waiting for eric and
the second guy to leave the cafe
they went to the car got in and left
both
briefcases on the back seat the
detective followed them
they left the car in a parking lot and
luckily they were careless enough to
leave the car open
which briefcase should the detective
grab
the one that looks brand new while they
were walking to the car
the detective spotted a few scratches on
the second man's briefcase
both briefcases were locked with a
cipher not to make the whole thing
suspicious
the detective decided not to take it and
crack the code
right in the car can you help him open
the briefcase
[Music]
the code is zero zero zero the briefcase
is brand new
and eric probably didn't have time to
set a code on it yet
plus eric's the one who leaves the car
open and unattended in a parking lot
so no wonder he uses a default code for
his briefcase
now that the detective has the key he
heads to the mansion
the front door isn't a problem with the
key in hand the study is upstairs
he's been there before so he remembers
the stairs leading up have a secret
if you step on the wrong stair you'll
instantly fall to the basement
and won't be able to escape from it
yourself what step should john mind
[Music]
it's the one with the slit in the middle
when you step on it
it opens and you get into a dark room
with bats and spiders
yikes alright john is finally at the
study door
and carl would always use buttons to
open it you've got only one try
there are three buttons yellow green and
blue
which one should the detective choose if
he knows that carl
is a big fan of painting
a combination of blue and yellow gives
green
so the door opens green light for our
detective
he finally reaches the safe with top
secret documents
that could help him find out the truth
obviously just like any other safe
it's locked with a code it also has a
warning
you can enter the code only once if you
hit the wrong code
the safe locks up forever he's looking
around for a hint
and voila john is right on the desk he
sees a note
it says secret code and has a
combination of three digits
three something and one the digit in the
middle can't be seen
since there's an ink stain right on it
can you crack the code with one attempt
only
[Music]
the code is 371 the detective thought
the code was used frequently
so the button must have been a bit worn
out he was right
since he knew the beginning and the end
he only needed to find
one more worn button alright
now he's got the top secret documents he
needed for his investigation
he looks through all the papers and
finally finds something that looks like
the document he actually needed
to take it as a hard proof he needs to
find one which is not
fake there are four copies they look
almost the same
but only one is real can you guess which
[Music]
one
it's the one in the upper left corner it
has a stamp
a signature and it says agreement the
one next to it looks the same
but it has a spelling mistake it says
agreement
other copies lack either a stamp or a
signature
so the detective takes a closer look at
this agreement
and sees something about a painting
bought in an auction
he suddenly understands that his friend
carl was taken
so that someone could sneak into his
mansion and grab that super expensive
painting
he's looking at the wall with all the
paintings carl collected
and realizes that no painting is missing
there are as many nails in the wall as
there are paintings
still there's something strange about
one of them
can you spot what's wrong here
even though all the paintings are
present there's one that lacks a frame
according to the agreement the painting
has been recently bought
and an art dealer helped carl pick it
the expert was an
honest man and he helped carl make sure
all the other paintings in his
collection were real
this time the painting turned out to be
nothing but a copy
why did the experts suggest that carl
buy it
[Music]
although the painting cost nothing its
frame was a beautiful
and expensive piece of art the one who
grabbed it
definitely knew that now it's all clear
john has to find both carl and the
precious frame
he goes outside trying to deduce where
the person who took carl went
carl is looking at all the tracks on the
ground he needs to follow one of them to
understand where to look for carl
where should he go
he's got to follow the tracks going to
the left there are three sets of tracks
here
the first belong to john's car the
second set belongs to a two wheel
vehicle
and since the tracks are really thin
they were left by a bike
it seems impossible to take someone
somewhere on a bike
so these must belong to a mail carrier
who comes every day to bring the letters
the last set of tracks definitely
belongs to a large car
so john should follow it he's lucky and
there are no turns
so he's just going straight half an hour
later
he sees something like a castle he
drives up to it
and he sees three moats in front of him
here's the first one
a row full of metal stakes how can jon
jump over it safely
there's a small hot air balloon nearby
john has to untie it and light the lamp
to take off
since the next moat is on fire john
thinks it's unsafe to
fly over it because the air balloon
doesn't fly high enough
and the lamp doesn't have enough oil to
go on for long
still he managed to cross the moat with
fire easily
how did he do it
he took the sand from the air balloon's
ballast and sprinkled it on the fire
extinguishing it the last mode was
filled with scalding hot lava
it took john some time to figure out how
to cross it but he managed to do it
safely
how
there were a lot of stones around him
the lava torrent wasn't deep at all
so throwing stones at it he made a tiny
path to hop on
the castle was rather small inside so
the hardest thing was to actually get
into it
when he entered the hall john saw three
doors
above the doors there was a sign it said
one of the doors leads to a labyrinth no
one ever escaped
one of the doors is the exit if you
enter it
you'll have to cross all the three moats
all over again
one of the doors has what you're looking
for
when john looked at the doors he knew
immediately where his friend was
which door did he choose
the handles were made of shiny metal
which looks cool but gathers all the
fingerprints
the only door with fingerprints is the
one on the left
john opens the door and sees his friend
carl rushes out of that dark room
and while heading to the exit they spot
a few frames
which one is carl's
the rectangular one the painting was
rectangular
and the two other frames are square the
two friends get out of the castle
get in the car and head to the police
department
there an officer is waiting for them
they have three suspects who could have
possibly taken the exquisite frame
carl and john enter the room separately
still they choose the same person
who did they choose
the man on the right carl chooses him
because
it's the art expert john chooses him
because he saw him with carl having
lunch
wow seems like this expert's not going
to work with carl ever again